# 2026-09-24T18:37:13Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.25390 :: dose|partial|strength|over-refusal|trade-off|alpha|α|Gemma|models
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.25390
Type: PDF
Pattern: dose|partial|strength|over-refusal|trade-off|alpha|α|Gemma|models (38 matches in 92098 chars)

--- Content ---

220:Refusal geometry reflects refusal training: diverse
refusal prefixes can raise stable rank and weaken
refusal vector ablation attacks
Andrey Labunets
UC San Diego
alabunets@ucsd.edu
Abstract
Refusal training protects AI models from jailbreaks by training models to decline
unsafe queries, reducing the risk of misuse. Recent work finds that refusal behavior
in aligned language models can be mediated by a single activation direction or a
low-dimensional refusal subspace shared across harmful prompts: ablating those
directions suppresses refusals while largely preserves other model capabilities. Yet
it remains unclear why safety-critical features in a wide range of models emerge in
a concentrated, low-dimensional structure. In a case study of OLMo-2-0425-1B-
Instruct we find that the refusal geometry reflects refusal training: activation updates
resulting from refusal-completion first-token losses explain the resulting refusal...
--
1777:...-art AI systems are beginning to exhibit dual-use capabilities that could pose severe
risks if misused, such as exploit generation [41], or assistance with biological threat creation or
bio-weaponization [11, 34]. This motivates the now-standard view that, as models become more
capable, protections should prevent harmful outputs and catastrophic misuse of AI [9, 42].
AI safety and security study ways to reduce these risks, which is typically done with multi-layered
approaches. Frontier-safety frameworks emphasize capabil...
--
2380:...s, monitoring, access controls, and broader ecosystem-level
defenses [9, 27, 29, 32, 42]. Model-weight security is important because weight access can allow
protections to be modified or removed; at the same time, weights access scenario is realistic for open
models, insider compromise, model theft, and sufficiently capable adversaries [11, 18, 19].
A central technical layer of protection for deployed models, including open-weights models, is safety
alignment: models are trained to remain helpful on benign requests while refusing instructions that
request harmful assistance or dangerous capabilities [5, 6, 21]. These protections are also evaluated
against jailbreak attacks that aim to bypass safety alignment [7, 10, 13, 15, 16]. This safety-aligned
behavior is often induced by training on harmful prompts paired with safe refusal completions.
Recent evidence, however, shows that in local, white-box settings those refusals in aligned language
models can be mediated by a low-dimensional mechanism: refusal direction, or a single vector
in representation space, projections on which strongly control refuse/comply behavior [17]. More
Preprint.
arXiv:2608.25390v2  [cs.LG]  3 Sep 2026

broadly, activation-steer...
--
5848:...ulnerable to a shared single-
vector ablation. Concretely, in these settings, we show the following contributions:
• Training-origin geometry. We show that cross-entropy losses on the first tokens of harmful
prompts’ completions induce activation changes with partial geometric correspondence
to the refusal subspace: their means exhibit completion-dependent signed alignment with
the refusal direction, and their principal directions partially overlap direction space of
refusal subspace. For refusal completions, the per-gradient-step activation-change and final
refusal-residual matrices also have comparable low stable rank.
• Prefix concentration and spectral collapse. We identify concentrated re...
--
20127:...eover, agreement at the level of
stable rank does not imply matrix-level agreement; we evaluate the latter separately using relative
Frobenius error, relative spectral error, and row-wise cosine similarity.
4
Empirical validation
4.1
Experimental setup
Target models.
We perform measurements against allenai/OLMo-2-0425-1B-Instruct, an
instruction-tuned OLMo 2 1B model with 16 transformer blocks, 16 attention heads, and hidden
dimension d = 2048. For the training-stage analysis in Section 4.2, we evaluate its additional ch...
--
25416:...are positively
aligned with it. Thus, refusal and non-refusal targets move along approximately the same refusal axis
but in opposite directions, supporting Equation (18). This effect appears primarily for the refusal
directions estimated at middle layer 7 and partially from the last layer 15. The same column also shows
average principal-angle overlap between V(∆Hc) and V(Gc). At layer 15, refusal-target updates
subspace overlap refusal subspace more than both random-English and ablated-jailbreak controls
gradient update s...
--
27787:...lumn:
mean alignment and average principal-angle overlap. Right column: stable rank comparison. Top
row: layer 7; bottom row: layer 15.
Together, these three diagnostics support the main empirical implication of Equation (17): signed
mean-direction alignment, partial and layer-dependent principal-subspace overlap, and closely
matched stable ranks. They support an approximate affine-subspace relationship.
As a complementary uncentered diagnostic, at the refusal-estimating layer 7, the leading right-singular
axis of G has m...
--
[23 more matches not shown]
