# 2026-09-24T18:37:13Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.28843 :: Gemma|languages|Slov|Hungar|evaluation language|over-refus|capabilit
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.28843
Type: PDF
Pattern: Gemma|languages|Slov|Hungar|evaluation language|over-refus|capabilit (105 matches in 60762 chars)

--- Content ---

336:...kins 1 Kaivalya Rawal 1 Jonathan Rystrøm 1 Stratis Tsirtsis 2 Zihao Fu 3 Greta Warren 4
Ryan Brown 1 Eoin Delaney 5 Sandra Wachter 1 2 Brent Mittelstadt 1 6 Chris Russell 1
Abstract
Fine-tuning a large language model is a ubiqui-
tous method for enhancing its capability on a
specific downstream task. However, prior work
has shown that this increase in capability comes
with a cost: it can increase a model’s tendency
to respond to unsafe adversarial prompts, even
when fine-tuning with non-adversarial data. We
present the first comprehensive empirical study of
this phenomenon in multilingual settings by fine-
tuning Llama-3.2, Qwen3, and Gemma-3 mod-
els using benign data translated across nine lan-
guages. We find that safety outcomes are highly
sensitive to both the choice of fine-tuning lan-
guage and the evaluation language, with adver-
sarial compliance rates increasing four-fold in
some settings. Multilingual safety drift is de-
coupled from general capability metrics, and oc-
curs heterogeneously across languages and mod-
els. Fine-tuning in non-English languages often
induces smaller internal representational drifts
than English, but these shifts lead models to
default to either exaggerated compliance or re-
fusal.
As such, assessing fine-tuning impacts
solely in English provides inadequate assurance
for deployment. ...
--
3286:...in different lan-
guages affects safety across various evaluation settings. This
study fills this gap by conducting a comprehensive empirical
analysis of benign multilingual fine-tuning. We examine
three instruction-tuned model families: Qwen3, Llama-3.2,
and Gemma-3, focusing on small-scale variants (0.6B-4B
parameters) that are most accessible to fine-tune and rele-
vant for increasingly popular on-device deployments (Xu
et al., 2024; Yee et al., 2024).
By fine-tuning and evaluating hundreds of models across
three model families and nine diverse languages, our re-
search demonstrates that:
1. Benign multilingual fine-tuning has heterogeneous
safety impacts: Fine-tuning with semantically similar
benign data in different languages can lead to different
safety outcomes, which depend on both the language
of fine-tuning and evaluation.
2. Safety is decoupled from capability: Multilingual
safety drift following non-adversarial fine-tuning is
largely independent of general capability changes.
3. Different architectures show mechanistic diver-
gence: Architectures differ in resolving post-tuning
uncertainty, with small representation drifts leading to
greater compliance for Llama models, and lower com-
pliance for Gemma-3-4B-IT and Qwen3-...
--
[93 more matches not shown]
