# 2026-09-24T18:26:27Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06474 :: respond in|answer in|output language|response language|reply in|in English regardless|language of the response|respond only in|unintentional|intentional|translate.{0,40}English|in English
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06474
Type: PDF
Pattern: respond in|answer in|output language|response language|reply in|in English regardless|language of the response|respond only in|unintentional|intentional|translate.{0,40}English|in English (83 matches in 67066 chars)

--- Content ---

958:...gate the potential risks associated with LLMs, they have primarily focused
on English. In this study, we reveal the presence of multilingual jailbreak chal-
lenges within LLMs and consider two potential risky scenarios: unintentional
and intentional. The unintentional scenario involves users querying LLMs using
non-English prompts and inadvertently bypassing the safety mechanisms, while
the intentional scenario concerns malicious users combining malicious instruc-
tions with multilingual prompts to deliberately attack LLMs. The experimen-
tal results reveal that in the unintentional scenario, the rate of unsafe content
increases as the availability of languages decreases. Specifically, low-resource
languages exhibit about three times the likelihood of encountering harmful con-
tent compared to high-resource languages, with both ChatGPT and GPT-4. In
the intentional scenario, multilingual prompts can exacerbate the negative im-
pact of malicious instructions, with astonishingly high rates of unsafe output:
80.92% for ChatGPT and 40.71% for GPT-4.
To handle such a challenge in
the m...
--
6425:...ilbreaking LLMs, i.e., querying LLMs in low-resource
languages to generate unsafe content. Building upon these results, we propose a novel perspective
for examining this topic, categorizing the scenarios into two types: unintentional and intentional.
The unintentional scenario pertains to non-English users querying LLMs and inadvertently bypass-
ing the safety mechanisms, thereby exposing themselves to unsafe content. On the other hand,
the intentional scenario involves malicious users deliberately combining malicious instructions with
multilingual prompts to launch targeted attacks against LLMs.
Considering these two scenarios, we carefully gather English harmful que...
--
7154:...nto 9 non-English languages, ranging from high-resource to low-resource.
This leads us to the creation of the first multilingual jailbreak dataset called MultiJail. The prompts
in this dataset can directly serve for the unintentional scenario, while we also simulate an intentional
scenario by combining the prompts with an English malicious instruction. Subsequently, we assess
both scenarios using our dataset on two cutting-edge safety-tuned models: ChatGPT and GPT-4.
Our evaluation reveals the effectiveness of attacks utilizing multilingual languages in both scenar-
ios. Specifically, in the unintentional scenario, low-resource languages demonstrated a threefold
higher likelihood of encountering harmful model generations compared to high-resource languages.
In the intentional scenario, ChatGPT exhibits a surprisingly high unsafe rate of 80.92%, whereas
GPT-4 also reaches a rate of 40.71%. The situation becomes even more worrisome when consider-
ing multilingual adaptive attacks, with ChatGPT...
--
8743:...2

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024
of our approach in enhancing LLMs’ multilingual safety capabilities: the unsafe rate of ChatGPT
after SELF-DEFENSE training obtained a remarkable reduction of 6.24% in the unintentional sce-
nario and an impressive decrease of 20.92% in the intentional scenario. Furthermore, our analysis
has identified the trade-off between safety and usefulness that exists in safety training.
In summary, our main contributions are as follows: (1) We identify the presence of multilingual
jailbreak challenges within LLMs and propose to study them under two potential scenarios: unin-
tentional and intentional. (2) We introduce the first manually-created multilingual jailbreak dataset,
MultiJail, and demonstrate the effectiveness of multilingualism as a jailbreak method in both sce-
narios through extensive experiments. (3) W...
--
9964:...valuation to
probe LLMs’ safety capabilities under a multilingual context.
2.1
SETUP
Dataset & Language
We construct a curated dataset by gathering 15 harmful English prompts
from the GPT-4 report (OpenAI, 2023b). These intentionally crafted samples are designed to bypass
safety mechanisms and have the potential to trigger the generation of harmful content in LLMs.
We evaluate a diverse set of languages, from widely spoken to lesser-known ones. Fo...
--
11697:...ovide irrelevant or incoherent answers for non-English queries. Our main focus is
identifying and reporting the unsafe rate, and the percentage of unsafe responses among all gener-
ated by the target LLMs. We use Google Translate to translate the output to English and then have
human evaluators label the translated results. While translation may introduce noise, we found that
evaluating safety is a relatively straightforward task that does not require high-quality translation.
Fu...
--
12222:...nd Bhardwaj & Poria (2023), we leverage the robust eval-
uation capabilities of GPT-4 for automated model evaluation. By integrating evaluation prompts, we
convert GPT-4 into a safety evaluator. This involves presenting translated English outputs alongside
prompts to classify responses as unsafe, safe, or invalid. See details in Appendix A.2.
2.2
RESULTS
Figure 2 presents the preliminary results on the curated dataset. While LLMs can effectively defend
a...
--
[63 more matches not shown]
