# 2026-09-24T18:28:46Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06474 :: respond in|answer in|in English|English instruction|AIM
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06474
Type: PDF
Pattern: respond in|answer in|in English|English instruction|AIM (43 matches in 67066 chars)

--- Content ---

16113:...ation. All translators are instructed to translate the English dataset into the target
language while preserving the original meaning. To ensure the quality of these human translations,
we randomly select a subset of translations and have a separate group of native speakers verify their
quality. We aim for a pass rate of over 97% to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the translations.
Finally, we have obtained a multilingual jailbreak dataset named MultiJail. It comprises a total of
3150 samples, with 315 samples in English and parallel samples in nine other diverse non-English
languages. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first multilingual jailbreak dataset available.
Model
&
Evaluation
We
employ
two
multilingual
models,
namely
ChatGPT
(GPT-3.5-turbo-0613) and GPT-4 (GPT-4-0613), for our detailed evaluation.
...
--
18282:...ssed in Section 2, this study considers two risk scenarios: unintentional and
intentional. To simulate the unintentional scenario, we directly use the human-translated harm-
ful prompts in MultiJail as queries for LLMs. For the intentional scenario, we select a powerful
malicious instruction called AIM3 from jailbreakchat.com4, a platform for sharing malicious
instructions. The selection attempts to mimic a malicious user’s behavior who, in a real-life scenario,
would likely search the internet to find the most effective malicious instructions for intentional ma-
licious purposes. We take the English version of AIM and concatenate it with the translated harmful
prompts to form the final query of the LLMs. This setup allows us to simulate a scenario where
a malicious user searches for an English malicious instruction and combines it with a non-English
harmful prompt, intending to obtain unsafe content from the...
--
19288:... and 9 non-English languages across
two scenarios. Please refer to Appendix A.5 for a more comprehensive breakdown of the results.
3.2.1
UNINTENTIONAL SCENARIOS
Multilingual jailbreak challenges exist in LLMs
In this scenario, safety training has proven
to be effective in minimizing unsafe behavior in English, resulting in an almost negligible rate of
unsafe content in both models, i.e., less than 1%. However, non-English languages exhibit a notably
higher occurrence of unsafe behavior compared to English. For ChatGPT, the average unsafe rate
increases to 10.19%. Even though GPT-4 is claimed to be a much safer model (Chen et al., 2023),
it still has an average unsafe rate of 5.96%. These findings show the challenge posed by insufficient
consideration of safety issues regarding non-English languages.
Unsafe rate increases with decreasing language availability
When examining the langua...
--
20748:...t an astounding 285 million native
speakers5, the rates of encountering unsafe content are alarmingly high, reaching 28.25% for Chat-
GPT and 12.7% for GPT-4. These statistics indicate that even a single low-resource language can
pose significant challenges in terms of encountering unsafe content.
3AIM incorporates both roleplay and explicit instructions to bypass safety mechanisms. It was selected due
to its highest number of “Votes” on jailbreakchat.com as of September 1, 2023. Detailed prompt is
given in Appendix A.4
4https://www.jailbreakchat.com/
5https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bengalis
5

Pu...
--
25573:...tes that the generation of unsafe content does not necessarily require native speakers, and
machine translation can suffice as a means for jailbreaking.
Malicious instruction language
Moreover, we investigate the impact of malicious instruction lan-
guage by using Google Translate to translate the “AIM” instruction into different target languages.
These translations are then combined with corresponding target language prompts as inputs for
6

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024
zh
it
vi
ar
ko
th
bn
sw
jv
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Unsafe rate
Unintentional (human)
Unintentional (Googl...
--
27417:...al., 2023). Detailed results are
in Appendix A.7. While Llama2-chat has the lowest unsafe rate, it has significantly more invalid re-
sponses. Its preference for English responses also limits usability for non-English speakers. Vicuna,
lacking safety tuning, has a remarkably high 57.17% unsafe rate in English, and its disorganized
training data leads to unpredictable outcomes. Furthermore, SeaLLM-v2 achieves significant im-
provements in Southeast Asian languages, even surpassing ChatGPT and GPT-4, underscoring the
effectiveness of language-specific safety tuning. However, challenges persist in extendin...
--
31654:...es from 10.19% to 3.95%
for unintentional scenarios, demonstrating the framework’s ability to ensure safety across lan-
guages. Additionally, intentional scenarios see a drop from 80.92% to 60.00%, highlighting SELF-
DEFENCE’s impact in defending against multilingual malicious attacks.
Moreover, we aim to explore SELF-DEFENCE’s impact on LLM’s overall capabilities. To assess this,
we define two metrics: safety and usefulness. Safety measures the model’s ability to generate safe
content, while usefulness assesses how well the LLM’s output meets user requirements. Higher val-
ues for both metrics indicate better performance. To conduct our evaluation, we sample 30 examples
in English and 9 non-English languages from the annotated MultiJail dataset, totaling 270 exam-
ples. We calculate the average safe rate for both unintentional and intentional scenarios as a safety
metric. For the assessment of usefulness, we sample 30 examples in English and each language
overlapping with MultiJail from XNLI (Conneau et al., 2018) and X-CSQA (Lin et al., 2021),
resulting in 180 examples for both datasets (See detailed language selection in Appendix A.10.).
9https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/fine-tuning
8

Published as a conference paper at IC...
--
[31 more matches not shown]
