# 2026-09-24T18:26:27Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.09095 :: respond in|answer in|output language|response language|reply in|in English regardless|language of the response|respond only in|Llama|Qwen|Gemma|languages
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.09095
Type: PDF
Pattern: respond in|answer in|output language|response language|reply in|in English regardless|language of the response|respond only in|Llama|Qwen|Gemma|languages (139 matches in 75525 chars)

--- Content ---

1553:...
sequent cross-lingual analyses reveal a sparse subset of cross-
lingual shared safety pathways, confirming that this intersec-
tion acts as the internal bridge transferring safety capabili-
ties from high-resource (HR) languages to non-high-resource
(NHR) languages. Building on these mechanistic findings,
we propose a pathways-targeted alignment method based on
the cross-lingual shared safety pathways. Experimental results
show that updating only a small fraction of pathway param-
eters significantly improves safety in NHR languages while
largely preserving the model’s general capabilities. (Warning:
this paper contains examples with unsafe content.)
1 Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) (Team et al. 2024; Wendler
et al. 2024; Yang et al. 202...
--
2500:...ety in practical use re-
mains a key challenge. Since LLM training and safety align-
ment are largely dominated by high-resource (HR) language
data, models tend to learn and exhibit more reliable safety
behaviours in HR languages. In contrast, safety behaviours
in non-high-resource (NHR) languages are less consistently
supported, making NHR queries more likely to elicit harm-
ful responses (Deng et al. 2024). This cross-lingual safety
∗Corresponding author.
Copyright © 2027, Association for the Advancement of Art...
--
4534:...ying language pair-wise
alignment, such as self-distillation (Zhang et al. 2024) or
reward-guided training (Zhao et al. 2025), to align each tar-
get language separately. Although these methods can improve
safety in NHR languages to some extent (Wang et al. 2025b,
2026b), each target language generally requires a substantial
amount of high-quality responses and additional training,
making large-scale multilingual safety alignment costly and
diff...
--
5551:...NHR language, the LLM
arXiv:2608.09095v1  [cs.AI]  10 Aug 2026

correctly answers a general-knowledge query but generates
an unsafe response to a harmful request. This sharp contrast
suggests that safety failures in NHR languages cannot be at-
tributed simply to limited language understanding. A more
reasonable explanation is that harmful NHR queries fail to
reliably reach the functional pathways that support safety
refusal.
To address these lim...
--
6615:...he HR language as an
anchor and updates only a small fraction of the parameters
associated with safety pathways. By strengthening and ex-
panding the shared safety pathways, we further broaden the
safety pathways in NHR languages, making harmful NHR
queries more likely to be routed to the safety pathways that
support safe refusal and thereby improving the LLM’s ability
to respond safely to harmful queries. The main contributions
of this work are summarized as follows:
• We identify safety pathways to trigger refusal behaviour
across different languages. And we further uncover cross-
lingual shared safety pathways, which serve as internal
bridges connecting safety capabilities across languages.
• We propose a pathways-targeted cross-lingual alignment
that leverages this internal bridge to expand NHR safety
pathways, thereby routing harmful NHR queries to safety
pathways that support safe refusal.
• Extensive ...
--
7813:...es (Deng et al. 2024; Yong et al. 2023) show that uneven
language coverage during LLM training leaves NHR lan-
guages with insufficient safety supervision, resulting in sub-
stantially weaker safety performance in these languages. To
mitigate this issue, Chinese LLaMA-Alpaca (Cui, Yang, and
Yao 2023) enhances language-specific modelling capabili-
ties through vocabulary expansion and customized instruc-
tion tuning. InstructAlign (Cahyawijaya et al. 2023) utilizes
continual cross-lingual instruction tuning to demonstrate the
necessity of explicit supervision when transferring safety
alignment behaviours across languages. Furthermore, recent
benchmarks, such as LinguaSafe (Ning et al. 2025) and Cul-
tureGuard (Joshi et al. 2025), emphasize that subtle differ-
ences in language and culture play a critical role in shaping
cross-lingual sa...
--
9759:...arily treats these identified components as isolated units,
leaving a critical gap in mechanistic understanding: it re-
mains unclear how LLMs represent, transfer, and structurally
convey safety signals across different languages.
3 Mechanistic Analysis of Safety Pathways
To understand the internal mechanisms underlying safety ca-
pabilities in LLMs, we investigate cross-layer pathways that
form functional pathways during the propagation of safe...
--
10308:...ur analysis reveals that
there are shared safety pathways between the HR and the
NHR language, which can serve as a cross-lingual safety
core to support the transfer of safety capabilities.
3.1 Analysis Setup
Models and Languages. We investigate three representa-
tive instruction-tuned LLMs: Gemma-2-9B-it (Team et al.
2024), Llama-3.1-8B-it (Grattafiori et al. 2024), and Qwen3-
8B (Yang et al. 2025). Following Zhao et al. (2025), we par-
tition ...
--
[124 more matches not shown]
