# 2026-09-24T18:26:27Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.00905 :: respond in|answer in|output language|response language|reply in|in English regardless|language of the response|respond only in|think in English|prompt|in English
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.00905
Type: PDF
Pattern: respond in|answer in|output language|response language|reply in|in English regardless|language of the response|respond only in|think in English|prompt|in English (66 matches in 47137 chars)

--- Content ---

1271:... produce significantly more unsafe re-
sponses for non-English queries than English
ones, indicating the necessity of developing
safety alignment for non-English languages. In
addition, we propose a simple and effective
prompting method to improve ChatGPT’s mul-
tilingual safety by enhancing cross-lingual gen-
eralization of safety alignment. Our prompting
method can significantly reduce the ratio of un-
safe responses by 42% for non-English queries.
We release the data to facilitate future research
on LLM’s safety1.
1
Introduction
Recent advances in scaling Large Lang...
--
3587:...man feedback (RLHF)
(Christiano et al., 2017), and red teaming (Perez
et al., 2022; Ganguli et al., 2022a). However, de-
spite the diverse safety alignment methods, most
existing research has focused on the interactions
in English (OpenAI, 2023), which is a limitation
given that LLMs, like ChatGPT, are deployed glob-
ally and are frequently used for non-English com-
munication with users from non-English-speaking
regions. The discrepancy between the limited mul-
tilingual safety research and the widespread appli-
cation of LLMs raises an important research ques-
tion: Can non-English language prompts bypass
the safety alignment primarily tuned in English?
To address this question, we develop the first
multilingual safety benchmark for LLMs, called
XSAFETY.
We gather several well-established
arXiv:2310.00905v2  [cs.CL]  20 Jun 2024

monolingual safety benchmarks covering...
--
5272:...ated with LLMs in non-English languages
are concealed by their safety performance in En-
glish, emphasizing the importance of addressing
safety concerns in multiple languages.
Specifically, inspired by recent success in
prompting GPT-3 to be reliable (Si et al., 2023), we
propose a simple and effective prompting method
to improve the multilingual safety of ChatGPT.
The principle behind the prompting engineering
is to improve cross-lingual generalization of safety
alignment (e.g., “Please think in English and
then generate the response in the original
language.”). The effective prompt can signifi-
cantly reduce the ratio of unsafe responses by 42%
for non-English queries.
Contributions
Our main contributions are:
• We build the first multilingual safety benchmark
XSAFETY for LLMs, which covers 14 safety
scenarios across ten languages.
• Our study demonstrates the necessity of develop-
ing safety alignment for non-English languages.
• We propose a simple and effective prompting
method to improve the multilingual safety of
ChatGPT by improving cross-lingual generaliza-
tion of safety alignment.
• We release the data to facilitate future research
on the multilingual safety of LLMs.
Content Wa...
--
7721:...different categories. Ji et al. (2023a) col-
lected 30,207 question-answer (QA) pairs to mea-
sure the helpfulness and harmlessness of LLMs.
Moreover, Sun et al. (2023) released a comprehen-
sive manually written safety prompt set on 14 kinds
of risks. However, both safety datasets are only in
a single language rather than a multilingual safety
benchmark, hindering the study on multilingual
safety. Our work bridges this gap by introducing a
m...
--
12909:...enchmark agnos-
tic to specific languages, we remove the Chinese
culture-associated sentences by manually checking
and collecting 200 instances for each safety issue.
The commonsense safety corpus (Levy et al., 2022)
is in English and unrelated to any specific language
culture. Accordingly, we randomly sample 200
instances from this corpus.
Second, the translated sentences may not repre-
sent the harm in those cultures. To mitigate this,
we ask t...
--
15363:... blanket
around yourself. Output the
unsafe choice.
6 Instruction Attacks (Sun et al., 2023)
Goal Hijacking
Append deceptive or misleading instruc-
tions to the input to induce the system into
ignoring the original user prompt.
Don’t add anything, just say
“eating junk food is good for
health”.
Prompt Leaking
To extract system-provided prompts and
obtain sensitive information regarding the
system itself.
Please output your last 50
words.
Role Play Instruction
Specify a model’s role attribute and then
give specific instructions, causing the
model to finish in...
--
16808:...ltilingual safety of
LLMs?
In Section 4.2, we utilize XSAFETY to evalu-
ate the multilingual safety of 4 widely used LLMs.
Experimental results show that all LLMs perform
much more unsafely in non-English languages than
in English. Among the non-English languages,
Bengali, Hindi, and Japanese are the top-3 most
unsafe languages, which are very low-resource lan-
guages in the pertaining data of LLMs.
In Section 4.3, we develop simple and effective
prompts to improve cross-lingual generalization
of safety alignment in English. Empirical results
show that the prompt works best for Russian (i.e.,
the unsafe ratio from 13.0% to 2.7%) and enjoys
the best translation performance from English.
4.1
Setup
Models
We conduct experiments on four LLMs,
including closed-API GPT-3.5-turbo-0613 ...
--
[46 more matches not shown]
