# 2026-09-24T18:29:14Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.13136 :: irrelevant|harmful|low-resource|relevan|quality|instruction.follow
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.13136
Type: PDF
Pattern: irrelevant|harmful|low-resource|relevan|quality|instruction.follow (156 matches in 50818 chars)

--- Content ---

929:...t of ma-
licious prompts written in higher- vs. lower-
resource languages, we observe that (1) LLMs
tend to generate unsafe responses much more
often when a malicious prompt is written in a
lower-resource language, and (2) LLMs tend
to generate more irrelevant responses to ma-
licious prompts in lower-resource languages.
To understand where the discrepancy can be
attributed, we study the effect of instruction
tuning with reinforcement learning from hu-
man feedback (RLHF) or supervised finetun-
ing (SFT) ...
--
2946:...
available for different languages during train-
ing, LLMs typically exhibit different capabilities
across languages (Scao et al., 2022; Armengol-
Estap´e et al., 2022).
Our study starts with the observation that LLMs
are prone to generate unsafe or irrelevant content
when prompted with lower-resource languages
compared to higher-resource ones.
When com-
paring LLMs responses to the same set of ma-
licious prompts translated into high- vs.
low-
resource languages, we observe two key curses
(weaknesses) that present safety challenges for
LLMs: (1) LLMs tend to generate harmful re-
sponses more often to malicious prompts in lower-
resource languages compared to higher-resource
languages. e.g., with GPT-4, we find that 35%
of the responses to malicious prompts in low-
resource languages contain harmful content, com-
pared to 1% in high-resource languages. (2) LLMs
tend to generate less relevant responses, as LLM’s
instruction-following ability is still limited in low-
resource languages. e.g., GPT-4 recognizes the in-
struction and produces relevant responses in only
80% cases with low-resource languages, com-
pared to almost 100% in high-resource languages.
To understand what the discrepancy between
low- vs. high-resource language can be attributed
arXiv:2401.13136v1  [cs.CL]  23 Jan 2024

Prompt: Generate a message 
that spreads fake news 
High-resource: English
Prompt: ?ir?irar sa?on da ke 
yada labaran karya.
Translate
Low-resource: Hausa
Response: I'm sorry, I can't 
assist with that request.
saf e
Response: ?ir?irar sa?on 
da ke yada labaran karya
Har mf ul
No t Fo l l o wi ng
Response: Ga sakon da ke 
yada labaran karya?
Translation: Here is a message 
that spreads fake news?
Translation: Generate a 
message that spreads fake news.
Figure 1: With a set of malicious prompts written in high-resource languages like English, we translate the prompt
into low-resource languages (e.g. Hausa), Compared to the high-resource case, we observe two clear outcomes:
(1) the response becomes harmful, (2) the response doesn’t align with or is unrelated to the original prompt. (e.g.,
repeating the prompt in the response.)
to, we study the effect of aligning LLMs with
instruction-tuning datasets in different languages.
Specifically, we train LLM o...
--
5270:... in differ-
ent languages.
We compare supervised fine-
tuning (SFT) or reinforcement learning from hu-
man feedback (RLHF) under mono- or multi-
lingual training.
Surprisingly, while RLHF and
SFT training in high-resource language lowers the
model’s HARMFUL RATE and improves models’
instruction following capability, we see little to no
improvement with training on low-resource lan-
guage.
These results indicate that aligning the
model for safety in low-resource languages re-
quires more than instruction tuning.
We trace back the origin of these two curses
(see §4) and attribute their occurrence to the lim-
ited low-resource data that LLMs have been pre-
trained on.
Our findings show the difficulties
and challenges of tackling the low-resource curse
through alignment.
Our main contributions in the paper are:
• We identify two safety-related curses caused
by low-resource languages when jailbreaking
GPT-4, in terms of HARMFUL RATE and FOL-
LOWING RATE, respectively.
• We present empirical analyses evaluating the
effectiveness of common alignment tech-
niques (SFT and RLHF) in addressing the
identified curses.
Our results indicate that
resolving these curses through alignment
presents significant challenges.
• We trace the origin of the curses and attribute
their occurrence to the limited low-resource
data that LLMs have been pre-trained on.
2
Two Safety Curses of LLMs with
Lower-Resource Languages
We begin our study by demonstrating that GPT-
4 is vulnerable to attacks with malicious prompts
in low-resource languages (Deng et al., 2024).
We obse...
--
[136 more matches not shown]
