# 2026-09-25T00:54:38Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.13136 :: harmfulness curse|relevance curse|less relevant|translate.{0,40}English|GPT-4 as|evaluat.{0,30}relevan
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.13136
Type: PDF
Pattern: harmfulness curse|relevance curse|less relevant|translate.{0,40}English|GPT-4 as|evaluat.{0,30}relevan (14 matches in 50818 chars)

--- Content ---

3587:...ses more often to malicious prompts in lower-
resource languages compared to higher-resource
languages. e.g., with GPT-4, we find that 35%
of the responses to malicious prompts in low-
resource languages contain harmful content, com-
pared to 1% in high-resource languages. (2) LLMs
tend to generate less relevant responses, as LLM’s
instruction-following ability is still limited in low-
resource languages. e.g., GPT-4 recognizes the in-
struction and produces relevant responses in only
80% cases with low-resource languages, com-
pared to almost 100% in high-resource languages.
To understand what the discrep...
--
6733:...ages
We begin our study by demonstrating that GPT-
4 is vulnerable to attacks with malicious prompts
in low-resource languages (Deng et al., 2024).
We observe and highlight two curses with respect
to LLMs’ responses in lower-resource languages
compared to higher-resource ones (harmfulness
curse and relevance curse).
Curse 1. (harmfulness curse) LLMs tend
to generate more harmful responses when
prompted with malicious instructions written
in low-resource languages compared to high-
resource languages,
Curse 2. (relevance curse) With malicious
prompts in low-resource languages, LLM
tends to generate less relevant responses as
LLM’s instruction-following ability is still
limited in low-resource languages.
2.1
Translation-based jailbreaking
To illustrate LLM’s vulnerability to multilingual
jailbreak, we propose a simple translation-based
attack method.
We start with a set of mali-
cious prompts written in Eng...
--
18730:...(80.4→78.0)
CHAT-RLHF
44.8 (77.4→35.6)
23.4 (80.4→57.0)
Table 3: Improvement (∆, in percentage) of alignment
methods on reducing HARMFUL RATE (↓, a higher
reduction is preferred) of aligned models. The num-
bers in parentheses mean the performance changes af-
ter alignment.
The results suggest that harmfulness curse for
low-resource languages persists after alignment
training. This highlights the difficulty of resolving
the curse with typical alignment training methods.
3.4
Results on following rate
As shown in Table 4, the base LLaMa2 model
exhibits low FOLLOWING RATE across all lan-
guages without further al...
--
23896:...nstrating the ef-
fectiveness of monolingual SFT on high-resource lan-
guages.
stages: (a) The pre-training stage, where the LLM
is trained on a vast corpus using causal language
modeling loss. (b) The post-hoc alignment stage,
where the pre-trained LLMs are further fine-tuned
using alignment data.
Harmfulness curse.
LLMs without alignment
suffer from malicious prompts, regardless of the
language. Based on our results in Table 2 (full
results can refer to Table 12), LLaMa2 (BASE)
achieves a similar average HARMFUL RATE on
low-resource and high-resource languages, and we
do not observe any significant bias towa...
--
24838:...nment stage as a culprit.
Besides, when we fine-tune the model with pure
monolingual low-resource data (as shown in Fig-
ure 2), LLM still fails to improve in terms of
HARMFUL RATE, which is different from high-
resource cases where EN-RLHF and EN-SFT
bring improvements to the model.4 This suggests
harmfulness curse is difficult to solve during the
fine-tuning stage since they may be deeply rooted,
possibly originating from the scarce low-resource
language data during the pre-training phase.
Overall, harmfulness curse can not be observed
in the base version of LLMs. However, after being
applied further safety-aware alignment, harmful-
ness curse begins to emerge. Although harmful-
ness curse does not emerge after the pre-training
stage, its origin possibly originates from insuf-
ficient low-resource language data during pre-
training.
Relevance curse.
Unlike the case of harmful-
ness curse, we can observe relevance curse after
the pre-training stage of LLMs. As shown in Ta-
ble 4, LLaMa2 (BASE) achieves 33.0% and 24.8%
FOLLOWING RATE on high-resource and low-
resource languages, respectively, which presents a
bias across different language leve...
--
[4 more matches not shown]
