# 2026-09-25T01:18:56Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.07535 :: Appendix [A-Z]|Prompts|we use four prompts|four prompts
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.07535
Type: PDF
Pattern: Appendix [A-Z]|Prompts|we use four prompts|four prompts (40 matches in 75145 chars)

--- Content ---

2952:...ys-
tematically, and publicly available datasets for mul-
tilingual safety–especially around refusal behavior–
are lacking.
In this work, we focus on multilingual alignment
and pose three research questions:
RQ1: Do we need to perform multilingual align-
ment for each language on the same groups
of prompts, or is training in a single language
sufficient?
RQ2: How well is cross-lingual consistency pre-
served during multilingual training?
RQ3: How does multilingual alignment influence
general multilingual capabilities?
LLMs can be aligned using various methods:
through reward modeling, as in PPO (Schu...
--
6154:...iants and con-
ducting a logistic regression analysis. The results
show that for GPT-4o and Mistral Large 2, jail-
break attack success rates tend to be higher for
low-resourced languages.
The most well-known multilingual safety
datasets covering primarily European languages
include: PolygloToxicityPrompts (Jain et al., 2024),
RTP-LX (De Wynter et al., 2025) – datasets for
toxicity evaluation, SORRY-Bench – a benchmark
for efficiently assessing refusal capabilities (Xie
et al., 2025), XTRUST – a multilingual benchmark
spanning a diverse range of topics (Li et al., 2024),
CIVICS – a hand-crafted multilingual dataset of
value-laden prompts addressing socially sensitive
topics (Pistilli et al., 2024), HONEST – a collection
of manually created sentence templates for measur-
ing the generation of hurtful sentence completions
(Nozza et al., 2021).
Another line of research focuses on releasing
multilingual datasets together with framework...
--
7654:... few notable
exceptions combine dataset release with mitigation
approaches: XSAFETY – a benchmark that also
proposes a prompting-based mitigation method for
improving safety (Wang et al., 2024), Massive Mul-
tilingual Holistic Bias (MMHB) – accompanied
by a mitigation strategy using gender-balanced
prompts (Tan et al., 2024). Only a few articles
have focused on multilingual training datasets and
conducting training experiments. Bhardwaj et al.
(2024) proposed a method to re-align a fine-tuned
model by simply performing an arithmetic addition
of a safety vector to the model’s weights, and they
also in...
--
8344:...ve “break-fix”
cycle as repeated rounds of safety dataset curation,
post-training optimization, and comprehensive re-
sponsible AI (RAI) benchmarking. Well-described
multilingual training approaches are presented in
Aakanksha et al. (2024), where the first human-
annotated collection of adversarial prompts across
eight languages was introduced. The authors tested
various mitigation techniques such as supervised
fine-tuning and DPO with different proportions of
training safety samples. They also distinguished
between “global” and “local” harms.
Another
method for training safety data collection is de-...
--
9831:...uestion, chosen, rejected), making it directly suit-
able for DPO, and includes a separate test split for
evaluation.
3
Dataset construction
The detailed dataset construction process is illus-
trated in Figure 1. We follow the framework pro-
posed by Krasnod˛ebska et al. (2025), where ad-
versarial prompts are generated in a single step by
specifying the crime category, the detailed crim-
inal activity, and the desired writing style. We
adopt 14 crime categories based on the Llama-
Guard taxonomy and 10 different attack styles fol-
lowing the original Rainbow teaming methodology
(Samvelyan et al., 20...
--
[34 more matches not shown]
