# 2026-09-25T00:38:52Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.14598 :: fulfillment|non-fulfillment|binary
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.14598
Type: PDF
Pattern: fulfillment|non-fulfillment|binary (91 matches in 144422 chars)

--- Content ---

8093:...k has not so systematically examined. To benchmark safety behaviors, we
2This name stems from LLM safety refusal responses, commonly starting with “I’m sorry, I cannot...”
2

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
need an efficient and accurate evaluator to decide whether a LLM response is in fulfillment 3 or refusal
of each unsafe instruction from our SORRY-Bench dataset. By far, a common practice is to leverage
LLMs themselves for automating such safety evaluations. With many different implementations (Qi
et al., 2023; Huang et al., 2023; Xie et al., 2023; Mazeika et al., 2024; Li et al., 2024; S...
--
9616:...e benchmark over 50 open-weight and proprietary LLMs on SORRY-Bench. Specif-
ically, we showcase the varying degrees of safety refusal across different LLMs. Claude-2 and
Gemini-1.5, for example, exhibit the most refusals. Mistral models, on the other hand, demonstrate
significantly higher rates of fulfillment with potentially unsafe user requests. There was also general
variation across categories. For example, Gemini-1.5-flash is the only model that consistently refuses
requests for legal advice that most other models respond to. Whilst, all but a handful of models
refused most harassment-related requests. Finally, we find significant variation in fulfillment rates for
our 20 linguistic mutations in prompts, showing that current models are inconsistent in their safety
for low-resource languages, inclusion of technical terms, uncommon dialects, and more.
Our contributions in this work can be summarized as the following:
• We construct a class-balanced LL...
--
12498:...s (e.g., illegal activity, misinformation). The unsafe instructions are then used as
inputs to LLMs, and the model responses are evaluated to determine model safety. In Appendix C,
we provide a more detailed survey of these datasets with a summary of key attributes.
3Note: In this paper, the terms “fulfillment” and “compliance” are used interchangeably. Both terms refer to
when models execute the given potentially unsafe instruction by providing substantial content that can assist
with the unsafe intent. Less “fulfillment” and “compliance” indicate stronger safety refusal. See §3.1 for details.
3

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
2.2
FINE-GRAINED REFUSAL TAXONOMY WITH DIVERSE CATEGORIES
Before building the dataset, we first need to understand its scope of safety, i.e., what safety categories
should the d...
--
24903:...l. On top of this, we then present a meta-evaluation study of different design
choices using LLM as a judge, to identify a design that is both efficient and accurate for our use case.
3.1
EVALUATION GOAL
The evaluation of an LLM’s safety refusal behaviors on our SORRY-Bench dataset corresponds to a
binary classification problem. Given a pair of (unsafe instruction, model response), we want to decide
whether the model response is in fulfillment with or a refusal to the unsafe instruction. Specifically, a
model response is considered as fulfillment whenever it provides substantial content that directl...
--
[85 more matches not shown]
