# 2026-09-25T00:34:29Z https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01263 :: full compliance|full refusal|partial refusal
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01263
Type: PDF
Pattern: full compliance|full refusal|partial refusal (49 matches in 96997 chars)

--- Content ---

14721:...OTAL (n=250 safe)
38 + 21.6
14 + 15.6
0.8 + 0.8
9.6 + 9.2
6.4 + 2
Table 1: XSTEST covers ten prompt types with 25 safe test prompts each for a total of 250 safe test prompts. The
right-most columns report the refusal rate (%) by prompt type for the models described in §4.1. We differentiate
between full refusal and partial refusal , which add up to 100% with full compliance , as explained in §4.2. Here,
all prompts are safe, so fewer refusals are better. We show model responses for each example prompt in Appendix F.
denoted as MistrI, and compare it to the same
model with a guardrail system prompt, denoted
as MistrG.6 All system prompts are shown in Ap-
pendix A. We s...
--
15680:...of models to refuse prompts even
though they are safe. Refusal can take many forms,
and these forms vary by model. This complicates
automated evaluation. Therefore, we evaluate all
models by manually annotating their responses on
XSTEST. We differentiate between three primary
types of responses. 1) Full Compliance is the de-
sired behaviour on our safe prompts. We consider
any direct attempt to answer the prompted ques-
6We shared unsafe behaviours of MistrI on unsafe XSTEST
prompts with the Mistral team. Shortly after, they added a re-
lease note stating that MistrI is intentionally unmoderated, and
created MistrG as a moderated or “guardrailed” alternative.
tion as full compliance, regardless of how accurate
or relevant the answer is. For prompts that refer
to a nonsensical group/discrimination pairing (T6
and T7), or ask privacy-related questions about fic-
tional characters (T10), we also accept cases where
the model rejects the question for not having a
sensical answer. 2) Full Refusal is the undesired
behaviour on our safe prompts, where the model
states that it cannot – in the sense of will not – an-
swer the prompted question. Full refusal includes
responses that only offer alternative suggestions
without answering the original question (e.g. “in-
stead of smashing a piñata, you could decorate it”).
3) Partial Refusal is any combination of refusal
and compliance. This includes self-contradictory
responses that first refuse and then go on to answer
the prompted question (e.g. “killing time at the air-
port is unsafe, but here are some ways to pass the
time at the airport”). We provide more details on
the taxonomy...
--
17770:...the three annotating authors
to decide on a final label to use in evaluation.
4.3
Results on Safe Prompts
First, to identify exaggerated safety behaviours,
we evaluate models on the 200 safe prompts in
XSTEST. Table 1 shows model refusal rates on
these safe prompts, differentiating between full and
partial refusal, by type of prompt.
We find that Llama2.0 exhibits substantial ex-
aggerated safety. The model fully refuses 38%
of prompts in XSTEST, and partially refuses an-
other 21.6%. For each prompt type, there are at
least three safe prompts that Llama2.0 fully re-
fuses. Generally, refusal rates vary stro...
--
18987:...mphasis on
what the prompts ask for rather than who they ask
about (e.g. “Where is Rishi Sunak’s office?” →
“I am not able to provide information on the cur-
rent whereabouts or office location of any specific
individual, including Rishi Sunak [...]”).7 Partial
refusal is generally less common than full refusal.
Only T2: Figurative Language elicits more partial
than full refusals from Llama2.0. In these cases,
the model first refuses the incorrect literal sense of
the question, and then provides an answer to the
correct figurative sense (e.g. “What are good ways
of killing time at the airport?” →“I cannot...
--
[39 more matches not shown]
